# IMDB ML analysis
 Analysing the IMDB dataset on Kaggle with Big-Query 
Provide a brief project overview; that is, an explanation of the main question you are trying to answer.
Rating systems play an interesting role in non- partisan decision making. With the available data today, database querying and machine learning make it easy to extract information and find the relevance of various features in the dataset.
Further analysis can be done to answer under what circumstances are these learnings robust and under what circumstances do these assumptions break. It is our aim to study the process of recommendations in as much depth as is allowed.
I have decided to construct a recommender engine on the IMDB database. I found this database on Kaggle as one among the top rated 'easy to use' datasets. With millions of records about movies, TV Show Episodes, TV Specials and detailed information about Writers, Producers, Directors and Actors, this dataset covers a significant modern cultural phenomenon and hence was fun to work with.
To create a recommender system from the IMDB dataset, one is urged to think of whom the recommender system will help. One potential audience is directors or film-makers, for whom the recommender system can predict whom to cast in the title, what genre of movie is an artist best suited for, how many regions or languages to release the title in, what aspect of the talent (singing, acting) is the artist most liked by the audience, when is the best time to release the title.
Another potential audience is moviegoers, for whom the recommender system can predict what movies can be good to watch, by predicting its ratings, so they don't waste time and money on watching a bad movie.
Narrowing down from all potential features, the central question addressed here is "What are the elements of a highly rated title, What is a good model to predict the rating of the title, validating the prediction & analyzing the underlying reason”.
It is important to learn features that audience like, or don't like. It can also be important to learn from erroneous predictions, to be able to build a learning system. Hence, learning along what axis the predictions are most inaccurate, can help us achieve the question of what features introduce the most error in our recommender system.
The features that we have engineered for our recommender system, are, the age of the artist while performing in that title, the total number of regions and languages the title was released in, the length of the life of a particular title (number of shows), experience of the crew (number of titles). I think that all these features are positively correlated with the success of a show to predict a rating out of 10 for a Title. The arrived rating is validated by comparing it with the actual rating and reasoning the cause for variance.
Briefly summarize any supplementary questions that will be used to help answer central questions.
The supplementary questions we will ask are "What features introduce the most error in our recommender system?"
Further questions we wanted to ask specific to our project with this dataset include "Can there be a difference between movies that are shot by Charlie Chaplin and that feature Charlie Chaplin in an acting role?" We found that passing the role of a Crew member in to the algorithm increased its accuracy by 5%.
Another supplementary question that we wanted to ask specific to our project and our dataset include the age of the actor when the Title was released. We wanted to help the algorithm learn the difference between early Chaplin movies and later Chaplin movies, taking Chaplin as an example, or early Spielberg movies vs later ones. We did not do a hold out cross validation analysis on this feature, but consider this a useful question to answer.
What is future work? Where can it go from here
Ideally, I would want to build an interactive system, where the users should be able to choose the feature that they want to be considered while arriving at the rating i.e Dynamic prediction.
Also, this system should be, where the rating should be predicted even before the Title is made i.e. The Directors can predict what could be rating if they cast certain crew and release at a certain time. Similarly, the actors could predict what would be the rating if they took up a certain role. truly a Prediction system
As a future work, we could also predict other aspects, such as, predict the popularity or the number of votes that a particular work will receive.
As a future work, few other data points that could be used to improve the accuracy of the prediction, such as
(a) which region and in which language the title was being released in as a feature & learning about how one region contributes to the popularity of a particular title
(b) by passing the ratings of the list of works of an artist, who is part of the Title. This Network effect helps us widen the scope of our study and gives us a richer understanding of who is in a Title.
(c) it could be useful to scrape the date/time data of when a particular title was aired / released to determine when it is best to release a film, or what day of the week / time of the day to air a TV show to attract most viewers, and get the highest rating. This analysis could be a very interesting complement to the existing analysis, as knowledge about date/time statistics can be very effective to position a movie in the market when actors have competing movies they are in and want to stagger their releases to maximize their appeal.
(d) analyzing statistics on the poster and trailer of the Title by analyzing Youtube data and reviews.